---
title: 'Build your own API'
---
When building your own API, it helps to know what you want it to be and what you want it to do. Find something truly interesting or useful to you. It'll help with motivation.

Next, consider the structure of your API, will it need to store and retrieve data? will it need to authenticate users? How much of that workload do you want to tackle yourself? 

If you don't want to handle everyhting yourself consider some reasonable API frameworks or management platforms, such as [3scale](), I used to work there! They're good guys and gals. 

In our example, we're going to write an API that plays tic-tac-toe. 

our API will need to do the following:
* store players and their scores
* keep track of where in a game someone is
* look for win conditions

While we could certainly keep all of this in a collection directly within python, I want the stored data to be more durable and persist in the event the API stops running or the server crashes, so I'm going to write it into a database. 

So we now have a high level idea of what it is we want our API to do. We should next consider the discrete operations our API has to perform to successfully run.

Specifically, our API will have to:
1. listen for requests from the internet
2. examine those requests to see what they are
3. process the requests in accordance with what they ask our API to do
4. access the database to read and write a record of what's going on
5. return a response to the request indicating what went on in the game and in the app

notes:

use python and django
write it without DB integration first
store play into an array
do some math on the array to validate winning sequences